README.md, before:

# sbc-registrar [![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/jambonz/sbc-registrar.png)](http://travis-ci.org/jambonz/sbc-registrar)

This application provides a part of the SBC (Session Border Controller) functionality of jambonz.  It handles incoming REGISTER requests from clients, including both sip softphones and WebRTC client applications.  Authentication is delegated to customer-side logic via a web callback configured for the account in the jambonz database.  Information about active registrations is stored in a redis database.

## registrar database

A redis database is used to hold active registrations. When a register request arrives and is authenticated, the following values are parsed from the request:
- the address of record, or "aor" (e.g, daveh@drachtio.org),
- the sip uri, or "contact" that this user is advertising (e.g. sip:daveh@3.44.3.12:5060)
- the source address and port that sent the REGISTER request to the server
- the transport protocol that should be used to contact the user (e.g. udp, tcp, wss etc)
- the sip address of the drachtio server that received the REGISTER request, and
- the expiration of the registration, in seconds.

A hash value is created from these values and stored with an expiry value equal to the number of seconds granted to the registration (note that when a sip client is detected as being behind a firewall, the application will reduce the granted expires value to 30 seconds or so, in order to force the client to re-register frequently).

The hash value is inserted with a key being the aor:
```
aor => {contact, source, protocol, sbcAddress}, expiry = registration expires value
```

## configuration

Configuration is provided via the [npmjs config](https://www.npmjs.com/package/config) package.  The following elements make up the configuration for the application:
##### drachtio server location
```
{
  "drachtio": {
    "port": 3001,
    "secret": "cymru"
  },
```
the `drachtio` object specifies the port to listen on for tcp connections from drachtio servers as well as the shared secret that is used to authenticate to the server.

> Note: [outbound connections](https://drachtio.org/docs#outbound-connections) are used for all drachtio applications in jambonz, to allow for easier centralization and clustering of application logic.

##### redis server location
```
  "redis": {
    "port": 6379,
    "host": "127.0.0.1"
  },
```
the `redis` object specifies the location of the redis database.  Any of the options [defined here](https://www.npmjs.com/package/redis#rediscreateclient) may be supplied, but host and port are minimally required.  

Note that in a fully-scaled out environment with multiple SBCs there will be one centralized redis database (or cluster) that stores registrations for all SBCs.

##### application log level
```
  "logging": {
    "level": "info"
  }
```

## http callback
Authenticating users is the responsibility of the client by exposing an http callback.  A POST request will be sent to the configured callback (i.e. the value in the `accounts.registration_hook` column in the associated sip realm value in the REGISTER request).  The body of the POST will be a json payload including the following information:
```
{
	"method": "REGISTER",
	"expires": 3600,
	"scheme": "digest",
	"username": "john",
	"realm": "jambonz.org",
	"nonce": "157590482938000",
	"uri": "sip:172.37.0.10:5060",
	"response": "be641cf7951ff23ab04c57907d59f37d",
	"qop": "auth",
	"nc": "00000001",
	"cnonce": "6b8b4567",
	"algorithm": "MD5"
}
```
It is the responsibility of the customer-side logic to retrieve the associated password for the given username and to then authenticate the request by calculating a response hash value (per the algorithm described in [RFC 2617](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2617#section-3.2.2)) and comparing it to the response property in the http body.

For example code showing how to calculate the response hash given the above inputs, [see here](https://github.com/jambonz/customer-auth-server/blob/master/lib/utils.js).

For a simple, full-fledged example server doing the same, [see here](https://github.com/jambonz/customer-auth-server).

The customer server SHOULD return a 200 OK response to the http request in all cases with a json body indicating whether the request was successfully authenticated.

The body MUST include a `status` field with a value of either `ok` or `fail`, indicating whether the request was authenticated or not.
```
{"status": "ok"}
```

Additionally, in the case of failure, the body MAY include a `msg` field with a human-readable description of why the authentication failed.
```
{"status": "fail", "msg": "invalid username"}
```

Finally, in the case of success, the body MAY include an `expires` value which specifies the duration of time, in seconds, to grant for this registration.  If not provided, the expires value in the REGISTER request is used; if provided, however, the value provided must be less than or equal to the duration requested.
```
{"status": "ok", "expires": 300}
```

Commit message:

added support for call_hook and call_status_hook in authentication responses

README.md, after:

# sbc-registrar [![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/jambonz/sbc-registrar.png)](http://travis-ci.org/jambonz/sbc-registrar)

This application provides a part of the SBC (Session Border Controller) functionality of jambonz.  It handles incoming REGISTER requests from clients, including both sip softphones and WebRTC client applications.  Authentication is delegated to customer-side logic via a web callback configured for the account in the jambonz database.  Information about active registrations is stored in a redis database.

## registrar database

A redis database is used to hold active registrations. When a register request arrives and is authenticated, the following values are parsed from the request:
- the address of record, or "aor" (e.g, daveh@drachtio.org),
- the sip uri, or "contact" that this user is advertising (e.g. sip:daveh@3.44.3.12:5060)
- the source address and port that sent the REGISTER request to the server
- the transport protocol that should be used to contact the user (e.g. udp, tcp, wss etc)
- the sip address of the drachtio server that received the REGISTER request, and
- the expiration of the registration, in seconds.
- the application callback that should be invoked when a call is placed from this registered device
- the application status callback that should invoked for call events on calls placed from this registered device

A hash value is created from these values and stored with an expiry value equal to the number of seconds granted to the registration (note that when a sip client is detected as being behind a firewall, the application will reduce the granted expires value to 30 seconds, in order to force the client to re-register frequently, however the expiry in redis is set to the longer, originally requested expires value).

The hash value is inserted with a key being the aor:
```
aor => {contact, source, protocol, sbcAddress, call_hook, call_status_hook}, expiry = registration expires value
```

## configuration

Configuration is provided via the [npmjs config](https://www.npmjs.com/package/config) package.  The following elements make up the configuration for the application:
##### drachtio server location
```
{
  "drachtio": {
    "port": 3001,
    "secret": "cymru"
  },
```
the `drachtio` object specifies the port to listen on for tcp connections from drachtio servers as well as the shared secret that is used to authenticate to the server.

> Note: [outbound connections](https://drachtio.org/docs#outbound-connections) are used for all drachtio applications in jambonz, to allow for easier centralization and clustering of application logic.

##### redis server location
```
  "redis": {
    "port": 6379,
    "host": "127.0.0.1"
  },
```
the `redis` object specifies the location of the redis database.  Any of the options [defined here](https://www.npmjs.com/package/redis#rediscreateclient) may be supplied, but host and port are minimally required.  

Note that in a fully-scaled out environment with multiple SBCs there will be one centralized redis database (or cluster) that stores registrations for all SBCs.

##### application log level
```
  "logging": {
    "level": "info"
  }
```

## http callback
Authenticating users is the responsibility of the client by exposing an http callback.  A POST request will be sent to the configured callback (i.e. the value in the `accounts.registration_hook` column in the associated sip realm value in the REGISTER request).  The body of the POST will be a json payload including the following information:
```
{
	"method": "REGISTER",
	"expires": 3600,
	"scheme": "digest",
	"username": "john",
	"realm": "jambonz.org",
	"nonce": "157590482938000",
	"uri": "sip:172.37.0.10:5060",
	"response": "be641cf7951ff23ab04c57907d59f37d",
	"qop": "auth",
	"nc": "00000001",
	"cnonce": "6b8b4567",
	"algorithm": "MD5"
}
```
It is the responsibility of the customer-side logic to retrieve the associated password for the given username and to then authenticate the request by calculating a response hash value (per the algorithm described in [RFC 2617](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2617#section-3.2.2)) and comparing it to the response property in the http body.

For example code showing how to calculate the response hash given the above inputs, [see here](https://github.com/jambonz/customer-auth-server/blob/master/lib/utils.js).

For a simple, full-fledged example server doing the same, [see here](https://github.com/jambonz/customer-auth-server).

The customer server SHOULD return a 200 OK response to the http request in all cases with a json body indicating whether the request was successfully authenticated.

The body MUST include a `status` field with a value of either `ok` or `fail`, indicating whether the request was authenticated or not.
```
{"status": "ok"}
```

Additionally, in the case of failure, the body MAY include a `msg` field with a human-readable description of why the authentication failed.
```
{"status": "fail", "msg": "invalid username"}
```

In the case of success, the body MAY include an `expires` value which specifies the duration of time, in seconds, to grant for this registration.  If not provided, the expires value in the REGISTER request is used; if provided, however, the value provided must be less than or equal to the duration requested.
```
{"status": "ok", "expires": 300}
```

Additionally in the case of success, the body SHOULD include `call_hook` and `call_status_hook` properties that reference the application URLs to use when calls are placed from this device.  If these values are not provided, outbound calling from the device will not be allowed.
